In this video, I'm going to show you a slightly better way of writing out this build user function
so it's not a separate standalone function.
Instead, we're going to get this thing built in or included with our user model.
The end goal here, what we're really going for is to kind of cut to the chase.
What I really want to do is be able to say user built and then pass in an email and a password.
The nice thing about this approach, if we could get it to work, we no longer have to export.
A separate thing from this file and create a new user is kind of a natural thing.
We say user built, build me a new user, create a new one.
It makes a lot of sense and it possibly even makes more sense than this approach.
Over here where we say new user, it's just a little bit easier to understand what is going on because
we've got that build method name in there.
So that's the refactor or the change we're going to make.
We're going to figure out how to build in or include this build user function on the user model itself.
So let me show you how we do that to add in a new method to our user model.
So really that thing right there, we're going to take a look back at our user schema.
Right above where we create the new user or the user model, I'm going to write out user schema, dot
statics, dot build, and then I'm going to assign to that same function that we wrote down a little
bit ago.
So this one right here, so we'll say adders is user adders.
And then return new user with adders.
I'm now going to remove the old build user and delete it from the export list as well.
So this is how we get a custom function built into a model.
We add it to this static property on our schema.
Now it definitely appears like this works, but let's try to actually use it.
So a quick test right here.
I'll say user build.
And sure enough, I still end up getting an heir.
So this is yet another point at which getting TypeScript and Mongoose to work together is just a little
bit awkward.
TypeScript does not understand what it means to assign a property to the static object.
If we were making use of JavaScript, everything would work just fine.
And to be truthful with you, this right here, it is accurate code.
Everything we have.
Totally accurate.
This is how we add a function to a use to a model in Mongoose.
But TypeScript just doesn't understand that we have to give a little bit more information to TypeScript.
So let me show you how we're going to fix this.
I'm going to go back up to the top of the file again.
I'm going to add in yet another comment and I'm going to say an interface that describes the.
Properties that a user model has.
So we're going to write out an interface that's going to essentially tell TypeScript that there's going
to be a build function available on this user model.
We're going to say that there is a build function and we're going to tell it what arguments are required
to call it as well.
So I'm going to write out.
Interface.
User model.
I'm going to say extends.
Mongoose model.
We're going to take a look at this existing interface right here.
I know there's an error right there.
Don't worry about that.
We'll fix it up in just a moment.
I want to take all the properties that already exist on that interface.
I want to add them into this new one that we are creating, and I want to add in some new properties
on top of that.
And we are getting an air from this right now to fix that air.
We're going to put in a set of angle brackets and then right any inside there, we're going to come
back and discuss what's going on with that just a moment.
But right now, we'll just leave in any.
Then on this interface, we're going to write in that build method.
And again, this is going to tell TypeScript about the existence of the build method and what properties
it accepts.
So inside of here we'll write out built.
It's going to take an argument called adders.
It must be of type user adders.
And from that we are going to return right now just any.
We're going to come back and fix up that any as well in just a moment.
So now that we've got this interface put together, TypeScript can understand about what a real user
model is.
All we have to do is really tell TypeScript about the existence of this interface.
So I'm going to go back down.
To where we created our mongoose model right here.
I'm going to put a set of angled brackets after model.
I'm going to write in any and then user model.
And as soon as I do so, you'll notice that the air right here changes.
TypeScript is no longer complaining that we're trying to access a build property on user anymore.
Instead, it's transferred the heir to the set of early braces.
So now it's telling us, Hey, if you want to create a new user or if you want to call this build method,
you must pass in an email and a password.
So now if I put in an email of test at test and a password of password, those errors go away.
So we've now told TypeScript about this additional property that the user model is going to have.
It definitely looks like it works out.
Now, even though this works, unfortunately, we just introduced a bunch of kind of mystery syntax
right here.
Right here.
And we got that any right there as well.
So again, it works.
But well, we've introduced a little bit more confusion and unfortunately this is kind of that stuff
where as mentioned earlier, we're getting the typescript and mongoose to work together, involves a
little bit of kind of crazy code.
It definitely works and we've got some awesome type checking included now, but there's kind of a mental
cost, so to speak, included with it.
In addition to that, we have really only solved issue number one right now.
We have not really solved anything related to issue number two, where we needed to somehow tell TypeScript
and Mongoose that the set of properties that we pass into creating a new user are different than the
properties that end up on a user.
Okay.
So still a little bit to get through here.
Right now, I'm going to delete that user build because that was just a quick test.
I'm going to save this file.
We're going to take a quick pause and continue again in just a moment.